---
layout: project
title: Detecting Mental Disorders in Tweets
date: Dec 2018
image: /public/images/wordcloud.png
---

## Overview

My final project for a class at Northwestern (Optimization for Machine Learning and Deep Learning) involved pursing a machine learning curiosity.  I decided to research further on text sentiment analysis, particularly learning about the problem in the prediction of mental disorders in social media. 

## Motivation
While research has shown that throughout the decades, rates of diagnosing mental illness have improved, many cases remain undetected.  In the recent age of technology, social media is a popular outlet for people to express their emotions. Moreover, symptoms of mental disorders have shown to be observable through the text in these outlets. Prior studies have indicated that individuals with mental illnesses show deviations in normal language.   Further, I have recently been interested in researching how to analyze, build, and optimize  machine learning/deep learning models that would predict mental disorders in social media (particularly Twitter) and propose technological solutions to try to ameliorate the issue.

## Methodology
I determined the best learning tool in the introduction of NLP and sentiment analysis was to utilize a Python project incorporating Machine Learning libraries that detects political sentiment shown [here](https://github.com/RonKG/Machine-Learning-Projects-2/tree/master/3.%20NLP_twitter_sentiment_analysis) and modified it to focus on my problem. The results and conclusions are shown [here](https://github.com/vnoelifant/twitter_detect_depression/blob/master/Twitter_Mental_Disorder_Detection.ipynb)

[View the full project on github here.](https://github.com/vnoelifant/twitter_detect_depression)
